---
layout: single
title: "Predictive Maintenance Part 4 - Rolling Element Bearing Degradation Dataset"
excerpt:
mathjax: true
author_profile: false
categories: PHM Bearing Degradation EDA
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/Cover/Maintenance.jpg
published: false
---

Synthetic Degradation Data
==========================

The implementation and the subsequent verification of the proposed GP and PF based prognostic algorithm was conducted on an model based degradation dataset. The dataset was generated by \citep{Anger2012} for his work on hybrid filter for bearing fault prediction. He used a physics based degradation model for rolling element bearings that described the growth of a pitting area on a bearing surface. The pitting growth model was then translated into a model for the mechanical vibrations, which was used for the degradation feature extraction. \\
Throughout the validation the first 10 pitting growth trajectory were used. We will denote these as $\mathcal{M}_i$.
The first evaluation run was performed on identical training and testing dataset. The generalization ability and the robustness of the algorithm were then evaluated through  a k-fold CV. The datasets where split in $k=3$ ,$k=5$ and $k=10$ subsamples.
The performance of the algorithm was evaluated using the in section \ref{subsec:metrics} introduced metrics.

The first validation run was performed on degradation trajectory $\mathcal{M}_1$. Figure \ref{fig:xvalidation_101_deg}  depicts the  degradation trajectory  and the predicted degradation trajectories starting at two prediction starting points ${t_p}_2$ and ${t_p}_5$.
The RUL was predicted at 10 different time indices ${t_\lambda}$. The respective results are shown in figure \ref{fig:xvalidation_10_RUL}. Most RUL-estimates show a high accuracy and are within the $\alpha$ bounds.
